Add distroless docs (#9649)
solo-io/gloo: devel/architecture/distroless.md

# Distroless Support

## What is Distroless ?
Distroless images contain only the application and its runtime dependencies. They do not contain package managers, shells or any other programs that are generally found in a standard Linux distribution.
The use of distroless variants is a standard practice adopted by various open source projects and proprietary applications. Distroless images are very small and reduce the size of the images built. It also improves the signal to noise of scanners (e.g. CVE) by eliminating unnecessary packages and files.

## Why do we provide distroless images ?

> Initially, Edge was built using alpine as the base image, however due to musl-libc issues in alpine, it was moved over to ubuntu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initially, Edge was built using alpine as the base image, however due to `musl-libc` library issues in alpine, the base image moved over to ubuntu.
```

> While this fixed the issue by no longer relying on alpine's musl-libc, the ubuntu images contained libraries and packages that were unnecessary and had troublesome licenses (eg: berkeleydb/lib-db) that certain users could not adopt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this move fixed the issue by no longer relying on alpine's `musl-libc` library, the ubuntu images contained libraries and packages that were unnecessary and had troublesome licenses (e.g.: `berkeleydb/lib-db`) that made adoption of these images difficult among the user base.
```

> Rather than managing troublesome alpine based images for certain users and debian based images for general use, we decided to support distroless variants of our images and deprecate the alpine ones. This way users who have restrictions based on licenses included in our images can use the distroless variant while others can use the standard one

Reviewer 2: can you clarify which distro we use for the base image? ubuntu?

Author: Yeah ubuntu. Updating the doc

> Rather than managing troublesome alpine based images for certain users and debian based images for general use, we decided to support distroless variants of our images and deprecate the alpine ones. This way users who have restrictions based on licenses included in our images can use the distroless variant while others can use the standard one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rather than managing troublesome alpine-based images for specific users and debian-based images for general use, we decided to support distroless variants of our images and deprecate the alpine ones. This way, users who have restrictions based on licenses that are included in our images can use the distroless variant while others can use the standard image.
```

> > Note: As of now we only support amd64 based images

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** As of now we only support amd64 based images
```

Reviewer 2: using the `>` at the start of the line changes the text to a quote when it's markdown formatted, so i suggested this change

Author: I prefer it this way so it stands out

> ## How is it configured in Gloo Edge ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How is it configured in Gloo Gateway?
```

> The image variant can be specified via the `global.image.variant` helm value. It can take the values 'standard', 'fips', 'distroless', 'fips-distroless'. It defaults to 'standard'. (The 'fips' and 'fips-distroless' variants are an Enterprise-only feature). This change also consequently deprecated the `global.image.fips` value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The image variant can be specified by using the `global.image.variant` Helm value. You can choose one of the following variants: 'standard', 'fips', 'distroless', and 'fips-distroless'. If the value is omitted, 'standard' is used. Note that the 'fips' and 'fips-distroless' variants are an Enterprise-only feature. This change deprecates the `global.image.fips` Helm value.
```

> The distroless images have the suffix `-distroless` in their respective image tag. Eg: quay.io/solo-io/gloo-ee:v1.17.0-distroless

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The distroless images have the suffix `-distroless` in their respective image tag, such as `quay.io/solo-io/gloo-ee:v1.17.0-distroless`.
```

> ## How is it implemented in Gloo Edge ?

Reviewer 2: could you add a line at the end of this section explaining that the standard images are run from the same image that's used to build them?

Author: I'm not sure what you mean by that

Reviewer 2: I was going to suggest mentioning something like "standard images are run using the same container image from which they're built" somewhere in the document, but given how you've updated it already, i don't think it's necessary to include that since it doesn't seem to fit anywhere anymore. feel free to add it in if you think it's helpful, but i'll just resolve this since i think it's not super important to add

> ## How is it implemented in Gloo Edge ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How is it implemented in Gloo Gateway?
```

The distroless variants are based off the `gcr.io/distroless/base-debian11` [distroless image](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/distroless/blob/main/base/README.md#image-contents). This contains ca-certificates, /etc/passwd, /tmp, tzdata, glibc, libssl and openssl that are required for our application to run. We use the base distroless image and not the static one as some of our components compile with the CGO_ENABLED=1 flag. Using this flag links the go binary with the C libraries present on the container image which are provided by glibc.

> In addition to using distroless as the base image, we add a few packages that are required by our components (for probes, lifecycle hooks, etc.). These are defined in the [distroless/Dockerfile](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/main/projects/distroless/Dockerfile) that creates the GLOO_DISTROLESS_BASE_IMAGE and [distroless/Dockerfile.utils](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/main/projects/distroless/Dockerfile.utils) that creates the GLOO_DISTROLESS_BASE_WITH_UTILS_IMAGE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to using distroless as the base image, we add a few packages that are required by our components (for probes, lifecycle hooks, etc.). These are defined in the [distroless/Dockerfile](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/main/projects/distroless/Dockerfile) that creates the `GLOO_DISTROLESS_BASE_IMAGE` image and [distroless/Dockerfile.utils](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/main/projects/distroless/Dockerfile.utils) that creates the `GLOO_DISTROLESS_BASE_WITH_UTILS_IMAGE` image.
```

> Each component that supports a distroless variant has its own `Dockerfile.distroless` Dockerfile that defines the additional packages required. Eg: The gloo [Dockerfile.distroless](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/main/projects/gloo/cmd/Dockerfile.distroless) copies over the envoy binary and other libraries required by envoy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each component that supports a distroless variant has its own `Dockerfile.distroless` Dockerfile that defines the additional packages that are required. For example, the gloo [Dockerfile.distroless](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/main/projects/gloo/cmd/Dockerfile.distroless) copies over the Envoy binary and other libraries that are required by Envoy.
```

> Finally, we use the appropriate customized distroless image (GLOO_DISTROLESS_BASE_IMAGE or GLOO_DISTROLESS_BASE_WITH_UTILS_IMAGE) as the base image in the Makefile when building our images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we use the appropriate customized distroless image (`GLOO_DISTROLESS_BASE_IMAGE` or `GLOO_DISTROLESS_BASE_WITH_UTILS_IMAGE`) as the base image in the Makefile when building our images.
```

> > To ensure that both the distroless and standard variants hold up to the same standard, we run the PRs regression tests against the distroless variant and nightlies against the standard variant of our images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

To ensure that both the distroless and standard variants hold up to the same standard, we run the PRs regression tests against the distroless variant and nightlies against the standard variant of our images.
```

Author: Prefer keeping this as a quote so it stands out

## Which components have distroless variants built?

> Gloo Edge Enterprise supports a distroless variant for the following images :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gloo Gateway Enterprise supports a distroless variant for the following images :
```

> Gloo Gateway Enterprise supports a distroless variant for the following images :

Reviewer 3: Is there a reason we are documenting enterprise details in here? It feels to me like developer documentation is most relevant to the repo it is documented in. What if we document here what oss versions of our components support fips, and ee has a separate file?

Author: Makes sense, removing
